add grading guide for student assessment demos (#1)
cbfacademy-solutions/assessment-demo: GRADING.md

# Assessment Grading Guide for Assessment Demo 

## Table of Contents
1. [Content and Organisation](#content-and-organisation)
2. [Delivery and Engagement](#delivery-and-engagement)

Please go through each section methodically, ensuring that you understand the criteria and can confidently attribute a score from 0 to 5 for each student's work based on their performance in the listed areas.

NB: please consider that some students may have technical issues outside of their control that impact their virtual presentations. If a student has a slow system or service outage during their presentation, they should be marked on the basis of what they were able to deliver

## Content and Organisation

This section gauges the depth of understanding and clarity of information presented about the technical project. It assesses the student's knowledge level, technical understanding, and the logical flow and structure of the presentation.

> | **Score** | **Caption**           | **Details**                                                                                                                                                               |
> | --------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | 0         | Did not present       | Student did not present.                                                                                                                                                  |
> | 1         | Poor organisation     | Incoherent presentation with no apparent organisation. Presentation lacks any technical detail.                                                                           |
> | 2         | Limited organisation  | Presentation attempts some structure, but is largely disorganised with unclear transitions between topics. Limited or no technical detail.                       |
> | 3         | Adequate organisation | Adequate organisation with an introduction, main points, and conclusion, but transitions are lacking. Some clarity in the presentation, with minimal technical detail. |
> | 4         | Good organisation     | Mostly logical flow with a clear introduction, main points, and conclusion. Some transitions may be abrupt. Organised presentation with sufficient technical detail.      |
> | 5         | Thoroughly organised  | Concise and well-organised presentation with a clear introduction, main points, and conclusion. Smooth transitions between topics. Excellent depth of technical detail.   |

Reviewer: I don't understand how to interpret "transitions" in practise, amended some terminology.

```suggestion
| **Score** | **Caption** | **Details**                                                                                                                                                |
| --------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0         | n/a         | Student did not present.                                                                                                                                   |
| 1         | Very poor   | Incoherent presentation, with no apparent structure and lacking any technical detail. Doesn't communicate a clear understanding of the requirements.       |
| 2         | Poor        | Content contains some structure, but is largely disorganised with unclear flow between topics and doesn't present the core functionality of solution.      |
| 3         | Adequate    | Fairly structured, but could be better organised. Showcases core functionality, but doesn't go into any technical details of implementation.               |
| 4         | Good        | Mostly logical flow with an observable structure. Generally organised presentation with reasonable technical detail, perhaps including visual aids.        |
| 5         | Excellent   | Polished, well-organised presentation with a clear structure and logical flow between topics. High level of technical detail and great use of visual aids. |
```

Author: Transitions speaks to an ability to move between the sections of the presentation smoothly. This is a key element of presentation skill to move between topics and or tools taking the audience with you. It's the difference between "next I'm going to move to a demo of my project in Postman" and just pulling up Postman abruptly without preparing the audience. It's quite noticeable when the next slide or action appears to be a surprise to the presenter as well as the audience, rather than it being something the audience is guided through by the presenter. 

I would argue that transitions is a better capture of that than flow. 

Also, this is grading aims to be generic across projects so no references to project specific are made, e.g. references to API

Reviewer: Understood re: specific references — have reverted to more generic terminology.

I do have to push back on use of "transitions", though, as in the context of a presentation, that term's commonly used to refer to visual [slide] transitions, which is how I originally interpreted it. Can you suggest a less ambiguous alternative?

### Tips 
- Assess how well the student comprehends the technical project. Look for evidence of in-depth research and knowledge.
- Evaluate the clarity and coherence of the information presented. Check if complex concepts are explained clearly and concisely.
- Look for a logical progression of ideas and a well-structured sequence of topics. Assess the transitions between sections.

## Delivery and Engagement

This section focuses on the student's manner of presenting, including engagement, confidence, pace of speech, and overall ability to keep the audience interested and attentive. It measures the overall impression the presentation leaves on the audience, including the student's ability to captivate, inspire interest, and create a memorable and impactful experience for the listeners.                 

> | **Score** | **Caption**                            | **Details**                                                                                                               |
> | --------- | -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | 0         | Did not present                        | Student did not present.                                                                                                  |
> | 1         | Ineffective delivery                   | Fails to engage the audience effectively, lacks pace, constant distractions. Navigates challenges or hiccups poorly       |
> | 2         | Delivery is awkward or distracting     | Limited audience engagement, and inconsistent pace.                                                                       |
> | 3         | Adequate delivery                      | Adequate engagement with the audience, reasonable pacing with only one or two distractions. Limited challenges or hiccups |
> | 4         | Mostly engaging and confident delivery | Maintains a reasonable pace. Mostly captivates the audience, with some elements fostering interest and engagement.        |
> | 5         | Engaging and confident delivery        | Appropriate pace, and varied tone. Captivates the audience, fostering interest in a smooth impactful presentation.        |

Reviewer: Removed references to audience engagement as that's hard to measure and not entirely reflective of the student's presentation skills

```suggestion
| **Score** | **Caption** | **Details**                                                                                                                                           |
| --------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0         | n/a         | Student did not present.                                                                                                                              |
| 1         | Poor        | Very low confidence, appears unprepared/unrehearsed. Haphazard pacing, encounters major issues or navigates issues poorly.                            |
| 2         | Fair        | Limited confidence and inconsistent pacing. Shows some level of understanding with only a few stumbles, but could be better prepared.                 |
| 3         | Adequate    | Decent pacing with only one or two distractions. Reasonably confident presentation, but doesn't encounter any major issues.                           |
| 4         | Good        | Maintains a reasonable pace. Mostly confident delivery, with the ability to clearly communicate the process and outcomes of the project.              |
| 5         | Excellent   | Presents with consistent pacing and engaging tone. Appears confident and knowledgeable throughout, displays a clear level of passion for the project. |
```

Author: Will integrate this into a commit. Some wording I'll change slightly. E.g. the change to point 3 sounds a little like we'd mark them down for _not_ having encountered issues, rather than an acknowledgment that there are less issues than someone who achieves a lower score.
